---
Title: Hello World!
Description: My first post for this blog, and the motivation behind it.
Tags: 
  - meta

---

This is the third revision of my website. My first website was a templated
website from [html5up](https://html5up.net/photon). My second website was a
simple one-pager with my name, a line about what I do, and a few social links.
This website, hopefully the last revision, will do *a lot* more.

Presently, I have a homepage with an introductory ‚Äúabout-me‚Äù paragraph, recent
news regarding my accomplishments and personal endeavors, a page for my
projects, social links, and this blog. I think that‚Äôs a fairly acceptable
design, although it may be a little cramped due to the amount of text. Perhaps
I‚Äôll revise the design later. Currently, I am thinking of publishing a blog
article either weekly or biweekly (once every two weeks.)

For my blog, I am thinking of mostly writing tech-related things that I
encounter as I wander further down the path of computer science. I don‚Äôt want
to limit it to solely computer science, though. I too, have hobbies outside of
programming, and I‚Äôd love to use this blog as a space to share my love for my
non-computer related hobbies as well as my technological ones. My motivation
for this blog is to mainly document what I know and encourage myself to think
things through more. I also think it‚Äôs time for me to have a broader presence
on the internet and start contributing back with my blog and open-source
projects.

As I‚Äôm still trying to improve my English writing skills, I hope this website
becomes a valuable and interesting resource for those interested in my thoughts
and hobbies. If you have any questions, or would just like to share something
with me, you can reach out to me through [a myriad of different contact
 methods.](/contact) üì®
