---
Title: Bad Apple (Inc.)
Description: How Apple took away a lot of money and time from me for getting a new iPhone
Tags: 
  - apple
  - icloud

---

On Sep 21, 2023, I ordered and got the new iPhone 15 Pro to replace my old
iPhone X. Shortly after that, in maybe one or two days, my phone prompted me to
re-enter my App Store Apple ID. Note that I use a different Apple ID for my
iCloud and the App Store.

When I put in the password for my App Store Apple ID, it told me that my account
was deactivated. That was strange, so I went thru the support process to get the
account re-activated, perhaps me getting a new phone triggered some alert in
some system. I had nothing else in my account, no chargebacks, no declined
payments, I had also spent a lot of money on that account.

I called Apple support (Sep 24), they said they'd put in a request to get the account
reactivated, and that I should get a response back in 24 hours. In 24 hours, on
Sep 25, I got an email back that the account was reactivated.

I thought that was the end of it, however...

On Oct 7, the account was once again deactivated, I called Apple once on that
day, they said the same thing and that I should get a notification in 24 hours.
I got nothing, I called again on Oct 11, same response, but nothing in 24 hours.

That is quite strange, so on my third call on Oct 12, I asked for the higher
support agent, and I reached someone. They said that they have put in another
request, and scheduled a call-back the next day. The next day, she checked the
request and informed me that Apple could not reactivate the account, and
directed me to the [iCloud Legal
Agreement](https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-services/icloud/). That was
quite unfortunate, it does not appear that the Apple phone support can do
anything.

On Oct 27, I decided to call again, asked for a higher support agent, and explained
the whole situation. They said that they will put in a request to the
Engineering team, and that I should get a response back in a week or two. A few
week has passed, yet no response in the email. I called again and was told that
Apple can not re-activate the account.

This was quite sad, I have spent a considerable amount of money on app
purchases. And they are all down the drain.

Even worse, I can no longer update any apps on the phone, since they were
acquired with the old, deactivated Apple ID. I had to re-install both the iPhone
and the iPad, wasting a lot of hours re-enrolling 2fa apps like Duo and Okta,
re-generate biometric keys both in-app authentication and ssh. By now, Nov 6, I
have finally rolled out the new ssh keys to all of my server infrastructure.

This whole ordeal has caused me a lot of lost time and money, and I was not even
provided a reason as to why it happened.

In the future, I will probably phase out of the Apple Ecosystem, maybe finally
getting a Thinkpad like the rest of the hardcore Linux users. I also can no
longer support a company like Apple, and will be closing my positions on Apple
shortly. (Not Financial Advice)
