---
Title: EVE Virtual Environment Introduction
Description: Why I am moving off of Proxmox, and what I am building to replace it.
Tags: 
  - golang
  - hypervisor
  - eve

---

I have been using [Proxmox](https://proxmox.com) for around three years now. It
was a decent solution for [EzriCloud](https://as206628.net) at the time; I only
had one hypervisor in the beginning. Now I have three hypervisors in California,
and a few scattered around the east coast. The three hypervisors are in a
Proxmox cluster. One of the east coast ones is running Proxmox, and the rest are
running [libvirt](https://libvirt.org) and
[cockpit-machine](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit-machines).

There are a few reasons why I am developing a Proxmox replacement and stopped
deploying Proxmox. I will try my best to explain them here, however your milage
may vary, and Proxmox is still a great solution for a lot of cases.

* Custom kernel - Proxmox uses it's own kernel, which was not something I am a
  big fan of. It is built off of a Debian system but with a weird custom Ubuntu
  based kernel. I'd much rather all of my Linux machines running off of the same
  kernels for consistency sake.
* Firewalling - Proxmox also would rather handling their firewalling their own
  way, using their own CLIs and file permissions. It makes management for me a
  pain at a bigger scale.
* Clustering - Proxmox cluster is just a pain. You need at least three for a
  quorum, and for a site with only three hypervisors, losing one would not be
  fun. Proxmox clustering is also needlessly complicated for my scale.
* User management - There isn't an easy way to manage users across
  clusters/silos without having to spin up a LDAP server.
* Lack of centralized management - You can't manage all the clusters and silos
  within the same web interface.

These are the main reasons that I could think of for now. They may not be deal
breakers for you, but over the years they add up and make me want to switch
away. I considered deploying [OpenStack](https://www.openstack.org) as it is one
of the alternatives for bigger scaled operations, but EzriCloud is nowhere as
big that justified a whole OpenStack deployment. An OpenStack deployment was
also extremely complicated and I heard from many friends that it'd take a lot of
effort to maintain.

Here comes Eve and Auto (yes, name was inspired from WALL-E). It's my first big
software engineering project, so please don't expect greatness from it.

[Auto](https://github.com/baseddevelopment/auto) is a daemon that runs on each
Libvirt hypervisor. It communicates to Libvirt and other systems on a Linux
system to  manage virtual machines, firewalls, and storage. Auto exposes a REST
HTTP endpoint for Eve to communicate with.

[Eve](https://github.com/baseddevelopment/eve) is the main management interface,
it communicates to Auto via mTLS (more on that later). Eve is also a REST API
with both admin and user routes to manage virtual machines across all the
hypervisors via Auto.

The [mTLS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mutual_authentication#mTLS) setup looks
like this. On initial Eve deployment, we will generate the certificate
authority, and it will sign the Eve certificate. For each Auto deployment, the
sysadmin would first generate a keypair, then a certificate signing request. The
CSR would then be sent to the Eve server to be signed by the CA, then the
certificate would be sent back to Auto. All of these key, CSR, and certificate
generation are all done via the eve and auto binaries.

The Eve database will maintain the fingerprint for each auto certificate, along
with their connection details. Auto's configuration file will contain Eve's
certificate fingerprint. Auto will also have the Eve CA's public key. For each
request between Eve and Auto, both sides will verify each other's fingerprint,
and the validity of the chain of trust via the CA.

Eve will also support cloud-init, as that is something that most virtualization
solutions should have in the year 2024. I also want to add live-migration
support via libvirt, but I'm not sure yet.

Eve is simply the management API, but I will also develop a web interface for
both users and admins. I think a command line interface would also be nice.
Another idea I had was to have a TUI interface that users and admin can access
via ssh, and authentication would be done automatically via user's public keys.

Read also: [VNC Proxying for Eve](https://ezrizhu.com/blog/cloud-vnc-proxy)
