---
Title: Reflection on Individual Privacy vs. Societal Good.
Description: A reflection on Individual Privacy vs. Social Good
Tags: 
  - privacy

---

['I've Got Nothing to Hide' and Other Misunderstandings of
Privacy](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=998565)

> Read the following paper and prepare a 400-600 word reflection on Individual
> Privacy vs. Societal Good.

This reflection was written to satisfy a homework assignment for CS396 Security,
Privacy, and Society at [Stevens Institute of
Technology](https://www.stevens.edu/school-engineering-science/departments/computer-science)
for Professor Antonio Nicolos.

---

> The U.S. government practices “full pipe monitoring” and association mapping,
> which gives them the ability to build a detailed map of how our social
> movements are organized, worse this gives them precise information about what
> linkages should be disrupted in order to disrupt large social movements.

From [Riseup's about us page](https://riseup.net/en/about-us)

I believe privacy is a fundamental right of everyone, both online and offline.
We have a strong desire to feel in control, and having control over our data
means we have more autonomy.

When data is collected, it can often be leaked due to incompetence, as seen in
the past with various local, state, and federal government data breaches. The
more data an agency collects, the bigger the target becomes for hackers. Even if
you have nothing to hide, and even if the government may not do anything harmful
with your data, when it ends up in the wrong hands, your information may be used
to phish you or your family and friends.

As government data collection often focuses on people with suspicious behavior
patterns, anyone marked as "out of distribution" by an AI model may be subjected
to extra scrutiny. This additional scrutiny can lead to unwarranted invasions of
privacy and potential misunderstandings of innocent behavior. Since AI models
used to flag behavior are usually trained on neurotypical individuals,
misclassification of behaviors by neurodivergent people may make their lives
even harder, potentially leading to legal issues.

Historically, we've seen examples of government surveillance being used against
civil rights leaders like Martin Luther King Jr. More recently, as some states
ban abortion, we can see government surveillance data being used to prosecute
people who seek or aid in providing abortions. In Texas, the attorney general's
office sought state data on transgender Texans to revert their gender on their
driver's licenses. These cases illustrate that even if surveillance may seem
acceptable under a government you trust, there's no guarantee that future
administrations or shifting political climates won't turn that same surveillance
apparatus against you or causes you support.

As we have seen with programs like COINTELPRO (Counter Intelligence Program) in
the 1950s-70s, government surveillance technologies can be deployed to monitor
and actively disrupt legitimate social movements and protests. The U.S.
government's practice of "full pipe monitoring" and association mapping provides
them with powerful tools to analyze and map out the structure of social
movements in unprecedented detail. This level of insight allows authorities to
identify key organizers, communication channels, and operational patterns within
activist networks, potentially undermining legitimate social activism.

As seen on [D. J. Bernstein's Blog on the
NSA](https://blog.cr.yp.to/20220805-nsa.html), the NSA has a long history of
attempting to undermine the security of the internet to facilitate its
surveillance capabilities. These efforts to weaken internet security not only
compromise individual privacy but also create vulnerabilities that can be
exploited by malicious actors, including cybercriminals and foreign intelligence
agencies.

Ultimately, preserving privacy is not just about individual rights, but about
maintaining the foundations of a democratic society where people can think,
communicate, and organize freely without fear of unwarranted scrutiny or
repression.

---

Solove, Daniel J., 'I've Got Nothing to Hide' and Other Misunderstandings of
Privacy. San Diego Law Review, Vol. 44, p. 745, 2007, GWU Law School Public Law
Research Paper No. 289, Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=998565

See also: [Electronic Frontier Foundation](https://www.eff.org/)
