---
Title: Tool: Try(1)
Description: Inspect a command’s effects before modifying your live system
Tags: 
  - golang
  - hypervisor

---

This was a talk.

[Slide 1]

This talk was given at the third PaSh workshop, I would like to first thank
Nikos Vasilakis for organizing this. This was also my first talk, so apologies
for the cringy bits.

[Slide 2]

Try is a higher order command that lets you run a command or a script, including
a shell, in a sandbox looks exactly like your live system, and inspect it’s
effects before committing them to your live system. This is sort of like an undo
command but for filesystem changes. This allows you to run complex, or perhaps
risky third-party scripts and get a clear view into how they interact with the
file system, and you get a choice whether to commit them or not, or even to
extract the changes from the sandbox.

In this talk, we will take a deep dive into the motivation, internals, and the
architecture of try.

We will also demonstrate try being used in real world shell scripts.

This is a collaboration effort in the PaSh team, so I’d like to thank Michael
Greenberg, Konstantinos Kallas, Georgios Liargkovas and the rest of the PaSh
team on making this happen.

[Slide 3]

We will first start by going over why we made try and how it integrates with our
research. We will then go over overlayfs, one of the main drivers of try. After
that, we will examine how we’re using linux namespaces via unshare to support
mounting in the userspace. Lastly, we will explore some of the essential code
snippets of try that makes it work.

[Slide 4]

First, let’s go over why we built try in the first place. Our research hs is
mainly about parallelizing the shell via speculative execution. To do that, we
will need to run each of like of a script in it’s own sandbox (we will go over
why later.) We will also utilize overlayfs to improve performance for when we
have to merge the different outputs of a command. And in order to utilize
overlayfs in the userspace, we will be taking advantage of Linux namespaces via
the unshare command.

[Slide 5]

Here is a quick example of a shell script that we will execute via our out of
order execution engine ‘hs’. You can read more about hs on the HotOS 2023 paper.
This script first echos “Making weather Report!”, then it will pipe the current
date to the report file. It will then also pipe “It’s sunny” to the report file.

In short, the out of order execution engine will first run the script all at
once. However, we know that if we call all three commands at once, there is a
chance that the message “It’s sunny”, gets written before the date, and that
wouldn’t make much sense.

[Slide 6]

So, hs will first send the script to our preprocessor PaSh, which in this case
will just extract the three lines from the script, in some more complex cases it
will handle things like loops.

Then, our scheduler will call these three commands via Riker. Since we are not
sure whether these command runs will be correct, we call that speculation. We
use riker to monitor these command’s changes to the filesystem, and intercept
network calls, since we don’t wish to make network calls in speculation.

[Slide 7]

After these commands finish, the scheduler will find that command B does not
read or write to anything that its previous command has written, so we know that
the results of our speculative run of command B is correct.

Then it moves on to evaluating command C, and it finds that it wrote to the file
that command B has also written to, realizing that the speculative run of
command C is incorrect, because command C is a dependency of command B due to
the editing of the file “report”.

[Slide 8]

So, we have established that command A and B are ready to be merged into the
filesystem. After that’s done, the scheduler will re-run command C and commit
the changes to the filesystem.

[Slide 9]

As a result, we have created a tool that writes a program’s filesystem changes
to a separate sandbox, allowing you to inspect its effects before committing it
to your machine.

[Slide 10]

One major driver of try is the Linux overlayfs. Overlayfs allows us to mount a
directory somewhere, and capture the changes to the mounted directory and put
them somewhere else. However, to the underlying program making these changes, it
will look like the changes were just written to the real filesystem.

[Slide 11]

Overlayfs at minimum uses four directories, a lowerdir, an upperdir, a workdir,
and a directory to mount the merged views to.

- The lowerdir contains everything that was already in the system, and overlayfs
  will not write to it.
- The merged directory, which we labled as overlay view on the diagram, is where
  we will be interacting with overlayfs.
- The Upperdir is where overlayfs will write cahnges to when they’re made in the
  merged directory.
- Workdir is where overlay stage changes to as it is copying files up from
  lowerdir to upperdir.

[Slide 12]

For example, here we have two directories, lowerdir 1, and lowerdir 2.

You don’t need to have two lower-directories, and when you first start overlayfs
with two lowerdirs, it will just merge the two, with the precedence defined by
the order in which you pass the lowerdirs to the mount command.

You will have to give overlayfs three empty directories, one for the upperdir,
one for the workdir, and one to mount the overlay view to. After overlayfs is
mounted to the overlay view, you are able to see the four files from the two
lower directories in the overlay view.

[Slide 13]

Here we’ll make a new file called file 5, and we will edit file 1. As you can
see, overlayfs writes the updated file 1, and creates file 5 in the upperdir,
leaving the lowerdirs alone. However, the changes are reflected in the overlay
view.

[Slide 14]

Now, we will delete file two. For file deletions, overlayfs will write a
character device at the location of the file that it is removing, and the file
will disappear from the overlay view.

This is basically how overlayfs works, we use it to stash changes to the
filesystem elsewhere, and then commit them later on if we want to.

[Slide 15]

And this is how you start an overlay mount.

[Slide 16]

This is also how docker works, when you build a container, each line in the
dockerfile is being written to it’s own upperdir, with everything preceding are
just lowerdirs in a merged view. When you pull a docker image and run it, each
layer is just a lowerdir, and your container is mounted on the overlay view.

[Slide 17]

But if we try to mount an overlayfs in the userspace, we get a permission error.
Since only root is allowed to mount, but we have a way to work around this via
unshare.

[Slide 18]

This is your computer, a program usually have access to all of these system
resources provided by the Kernel. And you can access them via system calls.

By default, processes you call will inherit all of your namespaces, just like
how when you prefix a command with sudo, it will inherit all of root’s
permissions.

Here, you will notice three programs, a nginx reverse proxy, a postgres
database, and my amazing webapp written in rust. As you can see, nginx is able
to reverse proxy the webapp because they both share a network namespace. Then
the webapp is able to communicate with the postgres database via a socket, as
they both share the IPC namespace.

[Slide 19]

Here is an example of linux namespaces being used in the real world.

TD has a computer and he really doesn't want to be tracked by ad companies and
other organizations on the internet. So he has three VPN setup in three separate
linux network namespaces. He then spawns a browser in each of the three
namespaces, where he will work on different things. This allows him to have
three different IP addresses on the browser.

[Slide 20]

But in our case, we will focus mainly on mount namespaces. Here we have two
mount namespaces, one has /fs1/ mounted at mount, and one has /fs2/ mounted at
mount, and a different value in fs1/file, and fs2/file.

Then if we start a shell in the two amespaces and open mount/file, we will get
different results.

[Slide 21]

This demo reproduces what we just went over. Feel free to copy them to your
computer and try it yourself. (Make sure the second unshare is not executed
within the first unshare, and you want to type ‘exit’ to exit the unshare.)

[Slide 22]

Alright, now let’s walk through some important snippets of our tool try. I have
edited some commands to make them a bit more readable. If you don’t supply try
with any arguments, it will show you the usage instructions.

Normally, you can just run try with a command or path to a script, then it will
run the command in a sandbox, and show you the changes and prompts you whether
to commit it or not.

You can also use -D to tell it to just run the command in a sandbox, and you can
use the summary and commit subcommands later.  There’s also the explore
subcommand, this will pop you into a shell in a sandbox.

[Slide 23]

Here, try will create three directories, an upperdir, a workdir, and a temproot.
Then for each mountpoint, we will create the directories within the three that
we just made. We then get all the top level directories, and all the mountpoints
in the system, and perform deduplication.

[Slide 24]

Here, we have the flag mount so we can mount and unmount overlayfs without
affecting the rest of the system. We also have map-root-user so that we are
allowed to mount. We also create a new PID namespace, and fork is necessary if
we do PID.

[Slide 25]

Here, we will define the function and make an overlay, we’re also enabling
extended user attributes so we see less errors in dmesg. We also mapped out the
devices that we want to mount, we don’t want to mount all our devices in case
some script starts writing zeros to your drives.

[Slide 26]

Now, we will create the overlayfs mount for each of the top level directories,
as well as the mountpoints that were already in the system. Sometimes, which is
often in the case of nested mounts, we will need to use a UNION_HELPER such as
mergerfs and unionfs to flatten nested mounts out.

Lastly, after we have mounted everything in it’s overlayfs, we will pop into our
second unshare, this case we will be entering our entirely overlayfs backed
system.

[Slide 27]

And here, we will mount the prof filesystem, and run the script or command that
we called try with.

INSERT DEMO HERE

Future plans

* We plan on allowing the user to specify the namespace that they want to be
  isolated (such as networking)
* Finalize support for UID/GID mapping (currently being worked on the [future
  branch])
* Speed up summary process
* And more, and we’re tracking them on our issues page.
